---
title: "Amazon EC2 X8i instances are now available in Europe (Paris)"
date: "2026-04-10"
---

# Amazon EC2 X8i instances are now available in Europe (Paris)

<p>Amazon Web Services (AWS) is announcing the general availability of Amazon EC2 X8i instances, next-generation memory optimized instances powered by custom Intel Xeon 6 processors available only on AWS. X8i instances are SAP-certified and deliver the highest performance and fastest memory bandwidth among comparable Intel processors in the cloud. They deliver up to 43% higher performance, 1.5x more memory capacity (up to 6TB), and 3.3x more memory bandwidth compared to previous generation X2i instances.<br /> <br /> X8i instances are designed for memory-intensive workloads like SAP HANA, large databases, data analytics, and Electronic Design Automation (EDA). Compared to X2i instances, X8i instances offer up to 50% higher SAPS performance, up to 47% faster PostgreSQL performance, 88% faster Memcached performance, and 46% faster AI inference performance. X8i instances come in 14 sizes, from large to 96xlarge, including two bare metal options.<br /> <br /> X8i instances are available in the following <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/regional-product-services/" target="_blank">AWS Regions</a>: US East (N. Virginia), US East (Ohio), US West (Oregon), Europe (Frankfurt), Europe (Stockholm) and Europe (Paris).<br /> <br /> To get started, visit the <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/console/" target="_blank">AWS Management Console</a>. X8i instances can be purchased via Savings Plans, On-Demand instances, and Spot instances. For more information visit <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/x8i/" target="_blank">X8i instances page</a>.</p>

[Read original post](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2026/04/amazon-ec2-x8i-instances-CDG-region/)