---
title: "Amazon OpenSearch UI is now available in GovCloud regions"
date: "2026-06-05"
---

# Amazon OpenSearch UI is now available in GovCloud regions

<p>Amazon OpenSearch Service expands its modernized operational analytics experience to GovCloud regions, including AWS GovCloud (US-East) and AWS GovCloud (US-West), enabling users to gain insights across data spanning managed domains and serverless collections from a single endpoint. The expansion includes Workspaces to enhance collaboration and productivity, allowing teams to create dedicated spaces. Discover is revamped to provide a unified log exploration experience supporting languages such as Piped-Processing-Language (PPL) and SQL, in addition to DQL and Lucene. Discover now features a data selector to support multiple sources, new visual design and query autocomplete for improved usability. This experience ensures users can access the latest UI enhancements, regardless of version of underlying managed cluster or collection.<br /> <br /> The expanded OpenSearch analytics helps users gain insights from their operational data by providing purpose-built features for observability, security analytics, and search use cases. With the enhanced Discover interface, users can now analyze data from multiple sources without switching tools, improving efficiency. Workspaces enable better collaboration by creating dedicated environments for teams to work on dashboards, saved queries, and other relevant content. Availability of the latest UI updates across all versions ensures uninterrupted access to the newest features and tools.<br /> <br /> OpenSearch UI can connect to OpenSearch domains (above version 1.3) and OpenSearch serverless collections. To get started, create an OpenSearch application in <a href="https://console.aws.amazon.com/aos/application">AWS Management Console</a>. Learn more at <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/application.html">Amazon OpenSearch Service Developer Guide</a>.</p>

[Read original post](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2026/06/opensearch-ui-govcloud-region)