---
title: "Amazon EC2 M8a instances now available in the Asia Pacific (Mumbai) region"
date: "2026-06-25"
---

# Amazon EC2 M8a instances now available in the Asia Pacific (Mumbai) region

<p>Starting today, the general-purpose Amazon EC2 M8a instances are available in AWS Asia Pacific (Mumbai) region. M8a instances are powered by 5th Gen AMD EPYC processors (formerly code named Turin) with a maximum frequency of 4.5 GHz, deliver up to 30% higher performance, and up to 19% better price-performance compared to M7a instances.<br /> <br /> M8a instances deliver 45% more memory bandwidth compared to M7a instances, making these instances ideal for even latency sensitive workloads. M8a instances deliver even higher performance gains for specific workloads. M8a instances are up to 60% faster for GroovyJVM benchmark, and up to 39% faster for Cassandra benchmark compared to Amazon EC2 M7a instances. M8a instances are SAP-certified and offer 12 sizes including 2 bare metal sizes. This range of instance sizes allows customers to precisely match their workload requirements.<br /> <br /> M8a instances are built using the latest sixth generation <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/nitro/" target="_blank">AWS Nitro Cards</a> and ideal for applications that benefit from high performance and high throughput such as financial applications, gaming, rendering, application servers, simulation modeling, mid-size data stores, application development environments, and caching fleets.<br /> <br /> To get started, sign in to the AWS Management Console. Customers can purchase these instances via Savings Plans, On-Demand instances, and Spot instances. For more information visit the Amazon EC2 <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/m8a" target="_blank">M8a instance page</a>.</p>

[Read original post](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2026/06/amazon-ec2-m8a-instances-asia-pacific-mumbai-region/)