---
title: "Amazon RDS for Oracle now supports January 2026 Release Update and Spatial Patch Bundle"
date: "2026-02-23"
---

# Amazon RDS for Oracle now supports January 2026 Release Update and Spatial Patch Bundle

<p><a href="https://aws.amazon.com/rds/oracle/" target="_blank">Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) for Oracle</a> now supports the <a href="https://www.oracle.com/security-alerts/cpujan2026.html#AppendixDB" target="_blank">Oracle January 2026 Release Update</a> (RU) for Oracle Database versions 19c and 21c, and the corresponding Spatial Patch Bundle for Oracle Database version 19c. We recommend upgrading to the January 2026 RU as it includes security updates for Oracle database products. The Spatial Patch Bundle update delivers important fixes for Oracle Spatial and Graph functionality to provide reliable and optimal performance for spatial operations. <br /> <br /> You can apply the January 2026 RU from the Amazon RDS Management Console, or by using the AWS SDK or CLI. To automatically apply updates to your database instance during your maintenance window, enable Automatic Minor Version Upgrade. You can apply the Spatial Patch Bundle update for new database instances, or upgrade existing instances to engine version '19.0.0.0.ru-2026-01.spb-1.r1' by selecting the "Spatial Patch Bundle Engine Versions" checkbox in the AWS Console. <br /> <br /> You can use AWS Organizations upgrade rollout policy to stagger automatic minor version upgrades for your Amazon RDS database instances such that automatic minor version upgrades are first applied to non-production environments, allowing you time to validate before the upgrades are applied to production environments. For additional details, refer to <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/USER_UpgradeDBInstance.Oracle.Minor.html#oracle-minor-version-upgrade-rollout" target="_blank">Amazon RDS for Oracle documentation</a> on using AWS Organizations upgrade rollout policy for automatic minor version upgrades. </p>

[Read original post](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2026/02/amazon-rd-for-oracle-jan-release-update-spatial-patch-bundle/)