---
title: "Amazon EC2 C7a instances are now available in the Asia Pacific (Singapore) Region"
date: "2026-06-25"
---

# Amazon EC2 C7a instances are now available in the Asia Pacific (Singapore) Region

<p>Starting today, the compute optimized Amazon EC2 C7a instances are now available in AWS Asia Pacific (Singapore) Region. C7a instances, powered by 4th Gen AMD EPYC processors (code-named Genoa) with a maximum frequency of 3.7 GHz, deliver up to 50% higher performance compared to C6a instances.<br /> <br /> C7a instances offer new processor capabilities such as AVX-512, VNNI, and bfloat16. They feature Double Data Rate 5 (DDR5) memory to enable high-speed access to data in memory and 2.25x more memory bandwidth compared to C6a instances, making these instances ideal for even latency sensitive workloads. C7a instances offer 12 sizes from medium to 48xlarge, including a bare-metal size. And with the launch of C7a instances, customers can attach up to 128 EBS volumes to an EC2 instance — by comparison, C6a instances allow up to 28 EBS volume attachments to an EC2 instance. These instances are built on the AWS Nitro System and ideal for high performance, compute-intensive workloads such as batch processing, distributed analytics, high performance computing (HPC), ad serving, highly-scalable multiplayer gaming, and video encoding.<br /> <br /> C7a instances are available through On-Demand, Spot Instances, and Savings Plans. To get started, visit the <a href="https://console.aws.amazon.com/" target="_blank">AWS Management Console</a>, <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/cli/" target="_blank">AWS Command Line Interface (CLI)</a>, and <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/EC2.html" target="_blank">AWS SDKs</a>. To learn more, see <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/c7a/" target="_blank">C7a instances</a>.<br /> </p>

[Read original post](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2026/06/amazon-ec2-c7a-instances-asia-pacific-singapore-region/)